in Oklahoma is the unique space
in terms of the number of
african-american towns that were
established some suggest upwards
of fifty African American towns
between 1924 1928 Reverend as
joan was going around
documenting this sort of
self-determine vibrant
african-american communities you
see the african-american
educators doctors lawyers land
owners oil barons and I think
that's what's so remarkable
about this footage to think that
individuals how many years out
of slavery are now owning oil
wells that are producing 2,000
barrels a day is that not the
ultimate American Dream is that
not the ultimate American story
if flies in the face of what I
think some people considered
part of african-american history
and culture and I think that
that was one of the things that
Oklahoma and what s jones is
really kind of showing is that
that african-american history
and culture is not a monolith
and in a way it became kind of
like a marketing tool to
encourage individuals to migrate
to move there that this is a
place where you can live you can
thrive and peacefully reside
there were still palpable racial
tensions there are lynchings
there's Jim Crow segregation
there's all of these things and
you still have an
african-american community are
many communities that really
speak to the fortitude of
resilience of black people in
this country